hi I'm Rick and wow that's more this was
more difficult for me than I had
expected really I'm just gonna say it
aren't I
hi I'm Rick I'm a politician I didn't
expect my life to lead down this path
you know it started out with talking
politics in the pub on Friday night and
we and Saturday nights
then things scaled up and had a little
bit and talk a little bit of politics of
the coffee at work and before you know
it you've put multiple people in the
European Parliament and founded a
political movement that spread to over
50 countries it could happen to any of
you you know so to introduce the pirate
party how many in here have heard of the
Swedish pirate party before let's see
you show house that's pretty much that's
half to two-thirds which is pretty much
what we see across the world actually so
I put it in the presentation so just for
kicks how many in here have heard of any
other Swedish political party let's see
a show hands yep and same thing as all
over the world it's scattered hands here
and we're of the audience
isn't that funny so for those of you who
haven't heard of the switch para party
before basically we love the knit
we love copying and sharing and we love
civil liberties for that some people
call us pirates and rather than being
shamed by this which i think was their
intent we decided to stand tall about it
and as a result of that we now have two
seats in the European Parliament 15
seats in the Berlin Parliament we have
almost 200 seats and local councils
across Europe and we are present in 56
countries starting on January 1st 2006
in Sweden as pierot party yet
so for the next 12 minutes we're going
to spend four minutes each on a little
bit of what is the message of this new
movement my story on it and ending with
what we all can learn from that sir the
title is politics of protest and we hear
that lot but you're just a protest
movement come on well like protest we're
not talking about defiance for defiance
sake here as if there was something but
rather if you're not in government and
disagreeing with what the government
does then by definition you're
dissenting if you want to change the
status quo you're part of a protest
there's a there been many before us you
know that the Greens came 40 years ago
they protest a pollution labor camp 80
years ago they protested exploitation of
workers and you had liberals which came
120 years ago which protested
overbearing power from royalty and on
the church they all became established
politics and policymaking all of these
waves start out as a protest against
something and then salute it solidify
into an ideology 40 years ago the
rallying cry of the youth were peace and
love usually coupled
with smoking one or the odd exotic plant
you know for the correct tone of voice
in saying there's some media that was
later solidified into political
standpoint of sustainability which has
many more syllables and therefore can't
be pronounced in the same way but this
has stood pretty much until now when you
look at a value survey of seventeen year
olds environment and sustainability is
no longer on the top of their agenda
something else overtook it just in
recent years and that is freedoms of
speech and openness and here's where the
old guard gets confused as in freedoms
of freedom of speech we introduced that
120 years ago we already have that why
are these people rallying and honestly I
don't think they understand that this in
its easiest translation is leave the net
alone because when you look at what the
old guard is doing they're introducing
censorship they're introducing
wiretapping they're introducing an end
to anonymity and all of this amounts of
cracking down of freedoms of speech if
the old politicians understood that the
laws they are making are the equivalent
of putting microphones air under every
cafe table I think they would be
absolutely horrified but they don't live
online so they don't understand that
there's a crackdown going on on the of
the net all over the world only the
excuses differ if you look at ex
President Mubarak it was all almost to
the day a year ago as he shut down the
Internet to prevent the uprising in
Egypt now you can kind of questioned his
sanity as if he won't if it wants people
to stay at home and indoors and he's
shutting off the internet if he wanted
people to stay indoors he should he
should crank it up for heaven's sake
but still only the excuses differ here
in the West its terrorism it's it's
battling organized crime and it's
sometimes battling pornography in
various forms in Muslim countries it's
preserving the sanctity of the Prophet
in some other countries its security of
the nation but it's always the same
action censorship wiretapping
identifying and track down what that
tells me is that if the politicians of
today see the entire growing up
generation as a problem then maybe it's
the politicians who are the problem
thank you
what we are demanding is it really
rocket science we are demanding the same
rights that our parents had 40 years ago
if you sent a letter in the mail you and
you alone will determine whether you
identified yourself as center on the
outside of the envelope on the inside of
the lip on the inside just on the letter
oh not at all nobody had the right to
open this letter in transit just to see
what you sent and translate it to the
growing up generation that means that
people are demanding to send whatever
they like on the net without being
tracked why it happened why I tapped and
identified and I think it's absolutely
reasonable that our children have the
same rights and civil liberties that our
parents are in there in their
environment now the copyright industry
in particular objects to this as in but
we can't make money in that case that
does not matter in an entrepreneur is
tasked with making money given the
constraints of society and technology
they do not get to dismantle civil
liberties even if and perhaps especially
if they can't make money otherwise and
that's why you seeing rallies for
freedoms of speech across Europe and the
world here's a map of the anti actor
rallies for instances I think it's quite
impressive
so what's my story how do I do this well
going from an ugly web page for actually
having people in Parliament now there
are many people working on this
obviously and the pie party is just one
movement out of many but this is my
story in 2005 I found three things
objectionable there was the software
patent debate in the European Parliament
which would criminalize knowledge there
was yet another copyright monopoly harsh
tuning in Sweden and finally there was
the data retention director being voted
through in European Parliament which
made all our mobile phones into
governmental tracking devices
I took exception to that but realised at
the end of the day that people are
people these politicians aren't evil
they're just trying their best to do to
make a better world so instead you gotta
have a little bit of empathy with your
adversary here and understand their
position
and how I found that the best way to
effectuate change here was to threaten
to fire them
so I posted a manifesto sure short
version is that I wrote two lines in a
chat and poreless overnight it just blew
up in my face 300 activists on the first
day and that became the array the
original crew and realised this was my
chance to change the world for the
better I had a choice here
I could either be overwhelmed by the
scale of it and retreat back into the
gray mass or like I did I had a
high-paying IT job I could take alone to
live off off quit my job in that order
very important
and build the pirate party so I decided
to try to change the world
elections were coming up eight months
out elections of 2006 a there was eight
months right it was plenty of time an
Internet project is just over the
weekend so eight months come on
turn to have we got point six three
percent in the first elections but there
was an important change there we had
been and here's this year's Joker party
going from that to sir do you have time
for an interview sometime in the next
two weeks it was quite a change anyway
my lone rogue my lone ran out inevitably
so I asked the swarm for help
I asked the activists we'll help if you
have spare money and want me to do this
full term please give me a little bit of
change at the end of the month I lived
off of begging for 18 months and
tabloids scandalized me for it of course
but it worked so the EU elections came
we won the world three point five years
after founding we got 7% 7.13 and two
seats in the European elections there
was the quickest way to getting in
Parliament that I found some anywhere
and we became the largest party for
people under 30 with 25% of those votes
that just sent shockwaves through the
establishment and this was then followed
by successes pretty much all over Europe
we're called the fastest-growing
political movement and today I'm instead
employed by the European Parliament
again scandal trying to be scandalized
by tabloids over that instead of begging
so what do we learn from this what can
we learn there's a Futurama quote
I like Futurama I'm a nerd well push
comes to shove you got to do what you
love even when it's not a good idea
I mean what kind of idiot thinks they
can change the world by founding a new
political party really this kind of
idiot there's another there's another
good quote if it's stupid but works you
know ain't stupid so we learn here that
people aren't evil your worst
adversaries aren't evil and trying to
portray them as such does not help your
cause but it does something else it
defines you and that's very important no
matter what cause you're setting out on
so whether you believe that you cannot
make a difference or that you can make a
difference it's a matter of attitude and
in both cases you're probably right
if you think you can shoot for the world
this is about leadership this is about
going out and saying I'm gonna change
the world who's with me and choose a
reasonable approach
don't shoot for the moon that's just
silly that's been done already shoot
from and illiteracy he helped two
billion people learn to read you can't
do this
eat I bet each and every one in this
room have some cause they would love to
make a difference in you can do it don't
dare let anybody tell you otherwise
you've got to be credible you've got to
be inclusive you've got to be tangible
when communicating this as long as you
do that it's just a matter of telling
people I believe I know we can do this
we can write ourselves into the history
books by going to bars going home it's a
matter of setting a couple of bullet
points recruit one dozen volunteer
rocket scientists
two dozen Mechanical Engineers and
somebody who's willing to mix rocket
fuel in the backyard some people of your
laughing this is how you do it
people will take your vision and do
whatever they can to further it you just
have to let them so as a final note
change doesn't just happen somebody
makes it happen
and you everyone in this room can't be
that person and that's my presentation
and please tweet any feedback you have I
love to see my name on Twitter
you